7. Conclusion and evaluation
a. Conclusion
We have seen in this course that FastAPI is a very useful tool for creating APIs. One of the keys to a successful API is an exhaustive documentation, easy to use and FastAPI allows to simply set up such a documentation. In addition, using OpenAPI (formerly Swagger) as documentation makes it easy to set up tests.

FastAPI also seems to be easier to handle in its syntax than Flask and more explicit on its management of the different methods. We could see finally that the FastAPI library is generally faster than Flask but also that it allows to manage easily the asynchronous requests.

b. Evaluation
In this section, we will present the evaluation of the FastAPI module.

Background
For this evaluation, we will put ourselves in the shoes of a company that creates questionnaires via a smartphone or web browser application. To simplify the architecture of these different products, the company wants to set up an API. The purpose of this API is to query a database to return a series of questions.


Therefore, the objective of this evaluation is to create this API.

The data
Our database is represented by a csv file available at this address.

You can download the dataset on your machine with this command:

wget https://dst-de.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/fastapi_en/questions_en.xlsx                                                                   
  You may need to install the following package to read excel files: openpyxl
It contains the following fields:

question: the title of the question
subject : the category of the question
correct : the list of correct answers
use: the type of MCQ for which this question is used
answerA : answer A
answerB : answer B
answerC : answer C
answerD : the answer D (if it exists)
Explore this dataset to understand this data

THE API
On the application or web browser, the user must be able to choose a test type (use) as well as one or more categories (subject). Moreover, the application can produce MCQs of 5, 10 or 20 questions. The API must therefore be able to return this number of questions. As the application must be able to generate many MCQs, the questions must be returned in a random order: thus, a request with the same parameters can return different questions.

As users must have created an account, we need to be able to verify their credentials. For now the API uses basic authentication, based on username and password: the string containing Basic username:password will have to be passed in the Authorization header (in theory, this string should be encoded but to simplify the exercise, we can choose not to encode it)

For the identifiers, we can use the following dictionary :

{
    "alice": "wonderland",
    "bob": "builder",
    "clementine": "mandarine"
}
The API will also need to implement an endpoint to verify that the API is functional. Another feature should allow an admin user whose password is 4dm1N to create a new question.

Finally, it should be widely documented and should return errors when it is called incorrectly.

Outputs
Expected output is one or more Python files containing the API code and a file containing the command to test the API. You can also provide a requirements.txt file listing the libraries to install. Finally, you can provide a document explaining the architecture choices made.

Don't forget to upload your exam as a zip or tar archive, in the My Exams tab, after you have validated all the exercises in the module.

Good luck!
